With that,
let's learn a new hot tool, [LAUGH].
Okay, so at some point, we do need to pick
some tools to do some things, like for
example, we picked a JavaScript to
write some code for the browser in.
And that's not even our only choice,
there's lots of other languages that we
can use to write for an ENCODE, but we're
going to stick with JavaScript because
it's been doing the web favor since 1995.
So the, The tool
that we're gonna talk
about now is called Vite,
you can read all about it at vitejs.dev.
And it is a tool that has become,
in my experience,
increasingly known and used and
liked in the JavaScript world for
a few reasons.
One of them is that it does some very
fancy magic for your developer experience
as you are building and like iterating
on a project of a certain type,
which we'll talk about later,
that does things like, for
example, allows you to change one
little part of your code base and
instantly see that update on your
test page that you're looking at
where we're looking things
that localhost and whatever.
And it'll just instantly update all of
these things underneath the hood without
you having to go in and
like reload everything and
reset everything else that
you'd already set up.
So, there's some fanciness there,
there's lots more fanciness to read
about on the website and whatever.
It also, it integrates and supports with
a whole bunch of different frameworks.
So it's not like a React ecosystem tool,
or a view ecosystem tool.
Although there is a lot of the view and
Vite,
folks are quite close, so
there is a lot of view related things for
it, but there's also a ton of
other React tooling for it,
and vanilla stuff, and all this stuff.
So, the other thing is thing is
that it uses another super popular
tool called Rollup, which we're not
gonna get into the details of but
it has this very open
kind of plug in system.
So people can write little plug-ins
that help you as a developer with your
developer workflow, you can kind of
customize it with this plug-in system.
So that's why a lot of people like it for
JavaScript.
Now, why are we talking about this
tool in the context of this course?
So, the reason that I chose this here
is because I think it's approachable,
I think it's like you don't have to
learn a whole new set of things in order
to kinda get productive.
It's also pretty widely used these
days for certain types of projects,
single page apps with perhaps
a framework perhaps not, but
basically like not a not the most
massive web app that you've ever seen,
but something that's on the scale of
what we've been doing and bigger,
but yeah,
in this kind of order of magnitude.
And it provides lots of useful rabbit
holes for learning more about like how all
of this tooling works,
all of the different options and magic and
things that are happening, other tools
in the ecosystem like Rollup, etc.
So, it's kind of, I think,
a good entry point, a main,
if you will, for getting into
a whole bunch of other tools and
frameworks and concepts and
in dev tooling.
That's why I picked it, if you hate it,
that's cool, go use something else,
but we're just gonna use
it a little bit here and
hopefully it's gonna make
our lives a little easier.